>> Todd Gardner: So where are we?
We're still talking about
measuring web performance.
We've talked about Legacy Metrics,
we've talked about the Core Web Vitals,
we've talked about Waterfall Charts,
and we've talked about Flame Charts.
So now there's a few more metrics that
are interesting that we should talk about.
And then we're gonna talk about capturing
them, and the browser support for
this stuff.
>> Todd Gardner: So
more performance metrics, even more.
We've already talked about five,
six of them, but
there's a few more that are interesting.
First, the Time to First Byte TTFB,
the one that breaks the three
letter acronym rule.
The Time to First Byte is
a super interesting metric, and
it's a measurement of how
quickly your host responds.
This is the most opsi operational
of all of the metrics.
It is almost, it has nothing to
do with your client side code.
It has nothing to do with your HTML or
your JavaScript or your CSS.
This is how fast can your host get
bytes out in response to a request.
So, if we look at a very
simple waterfall chart,
here is that the first thing that
the browser does you go and ask for an Ht.
You go and ask for a website,
it makes a request,
it starts shipping a document out.
Here's where TTFB lands,
as soon as the first byte
has been received from your host,
that's TTFB.
So largely this is measuring your
server and network performance.
How fast can you make that database call?
How fast can you ship
bytes across the wire?
How fast can you get those things out?
Let's take a way more minute detail
look at this because even though
this has nothing to do with
the client side of web performance.
This is still a really important thing and
there's lots of performance
optimizations that we can do
around them Time to First Byte.
So, here's all of
the different things involved.
So, when the user goes to a website,
let's say they go to Google and
they type in developer stickers.
Developer stickers online is
the first result, click on it.
What is actually happening
under the covers?
Well first,
start time is measured from the click,
from the navigation from Google.
And then there might be n number of
redirects that happen between, hey,
you land on this analytics tracker and
then you land on this URL and
this URL redirects to this URL.
All of those count,
all of those are count against you.
So, having a lot of redirects
does hurt your performance.
So we count all of those redirects.
And then there's a bunch of browser
stuff that happens with service workers,
which is out of scope of what
we're gonna talk about today.
And then it looks to see if
you have a cache locally, and
it takes a little time to do that.
And if none of those things are happening,
then it does a DNS lookup.
It says, all right,
what is developer devstickers.shop?
Where do I go to get that?
And then it tries to establish
a TCP connection to it, so
it tries to talk to it, and
then a request will start.
It'll be great I have
a connection to their host.
Then once the request has completed and
we start receiving bytes from
the response, that's TTFB.
So we don't know everything.
We don't have the entirety
of the HTML document.
We've gotten a response from the server,
TTFB fires.
>> Todd Gardner: How fast
does that need to be?
Now, Google publishes these sort of
guidance on what it thinks it should be,
but they don't hold each of this.
TTFB is not an SEO effecting metric.
It's not penalized for you,
it's not a Core Web Vital, but
they do still give you guidance for it.
Because TTFB does affect other
things namely TTFB affects your LCP.
If it takes a long time to get
the first byte from the server,
it's gonna take a long time to render
the largest thing on the page.
And so in general this should
be less than 800 milliseconds.
So less than a second for all of the
redirects, all of the network hops, your
server to do all of the database calls and
all of the things it needs to do and
get the bytes out to you,
800 milliseconds, which is really fast.
Public websites usually can't do database
calls as part of rendering things to
the user.
Generally, it's gonna be really hard
to hit that 800 millisecond limit.
If you do a database call in
response to a public website.